# CRUD Quiz

Use the solution to this afternoon's Property Tracker lab to answer the following questions. Please write your answers under each question, push the file to GitHub, and submit in the usual way.

## MVP Questions

In our Property Tracker application:

Q1. Where are we instantiating instances of the `Property` class?
A1. console.rb

Q2. Where are we defining the SQL that enables us to save the ruby `Property` object into the database?
A2. property_tracker.rb

Q3. In `console.rb`, which lines modify the database?
A3. delete_all() and save()

Q4. Why do we not define the id of a `Property` object at the point we instantiate it (‘new it up’)?
A4. The SERIAL data type generates the id with in the database.

Q5. Where and how do we assign the id (that is generated by the database) to the ruby `Property` object?
A5. We assign the id with @id = db.exec_prepared("save", values)[0]["id"].to_i and convert it to a string.

Q6. Why do we put a guard (an `if` clause) on the `@id` attribute in the constructor?
A6. The guard is a check to only return an id if and id exists.

Q7. Why are some of the CRUD actions represented by instance methods, and others by class methods?
A7. The job of instance methods is to apply a function to a specific instance of a class, where as the class variables can be applied to the class its self, e.g. searching an entire db for an instance of the class.

Q8. What type of data structure is returned by calls to `db.exec_prepared()`? In the `save` method, how do we access the id from the returned data structure?
A8. The data types are strings and the id is RETURNING from the db and assigning it to a class attribute. @id=db.exec_prepared("save",values).first()["id"].to_i() converting it back to an integer.

Q9. Why do we use prepared statements when performing database operations?
A9. It is used to check all the data types in the fields and then stores them as checked. This not only speeds up the read write process by storing know type information but it also prevents things like SQL injection attack by taking these "injected" commands and converting them to the field data type eg a harmless string.
## Extension Questions

Look at the `find_by_id` and `find_by_address` methods in the `Property` class.

Q10. What do they take in as their arguments?
A10. id as an integer and address as a string.

Q11. What are their return values?
A11. An instance of the Property class is return based in the the id or address that was entered. 
